Database Management Systems
Lab Assignment IV: Web Based Information System Design
Topic: Online Course Management Platform
Due: February 11, 2026, 5PM (Individual Submission)
An Educational Technology Company offers Massively Online Open Courses to its customers. You have to build a
platform to manage all the data related to the courses, teachers, partner universities, and students.
The goal of this project is to build a complete web-based information system having a backend database, a connectivity
server, front end scripts and finally a form-based web interface. Any database server/scripting language can be used
to build the system. However, the use of a database and scripts are compulsory.
Design Objectives:
The goal is to provide a web-based system for using as well managing the online course platform with required
functionalities and an easy to use interface. The system should provide a system4 for creating new courses and
programs, create new users of different types, displaying information about courses. It should also generate
statistics about the course enrolments.
Users of the System: A. System Administrator B. Instructors C. Students D. Data analyst
Functional Requirements:
i. The system must provide an entry page which will be the home page after login. The entry page would
display various menu based on category of the user.
ii. The system should allow students to view and search various courses that are offered, and register for
them.
iii. The system should allow teachers to add content to a course.
iv. The system administrator should add teachers to a course and if necessary, add/delete students.
v. The data analyst should be able to view various statistics about the courses.
Group size: At most 5 students per group. Time: 2 weeks. ER Diagram to be submitted by next week.
Submissions and Deliverables:
i. Demonstration of the project in Lab.
ii. A report consisting of:
a. Name and roll number of group members
b. ER Diagram
c. Table Schema
d. List of functionalities implemented
e. List of front-end tools used